---
title: biochemistry experiment
date: 2022-12-15
lastmod: 2022-12-16
---
## Preparation & Separation

The target protein used in biochemistry experiment usually comes from three kinds of source, natural tissue, recombinant protein in certain expression system or cell culture. 

Our research target may be natural or recombinant. If it is natural, the situation looks like this: I have some cell, and things I want (proteins, nuclear acid, etc.) are in the cell. I don't need to be a genius to see that  I need to break the cell. Common ways to break the cell includes: 

1. ultrasonic  waves (often used in microorganism, their cells are tougher) 
2. Grindling, homogenizer (often used in animal organism) 
3. Pressure and decompression 
4. Osmotic lysis (may create an improper environment) 
5. enzyme digestion (quite expensive) 
6. organic solvent

We take protein as an example. It is important to know the molecular weight, pI and some other basic information of the target protein.  Be cautious to make sure that the target protein doesn't precipitate. To stablize the protein, pay attention to the following aspects.

1. Ionic strength and polarity
2. temperature
3. pH
4. metal ions
5. oxidation
6. protinase

inclusion body in prokaryotic cells aslo needs to be handled properly. For membrane protein, detergents (without denaturing the protein) are often added.

common detergents includes tritonX-100, tween-20 and so on

some basic ways of separation include: 
1. salt precipitation
2. dialysis
3. 

## Centrifugation

Centrifugation is where capitalism goes to extreme. It almost needs no labor, most of the things can be done by the instrument. We will start from high school physics.

Recall that centrifugation force $F$ has  
$$
F=mω^2r
$$
The centrifugation speed is usually indicated with $rcf$ (relative centrifugal force, $g$ is considered as the unit of it) or $rpm$ (revolutions per minute). A little calculation will tell us that  
$$
1rpm=1.12*10^5rRCF
$$

Depending on different rpm, centrifuges can be divided into low-speed centrifuge, high-speed centrifuge and ultracentrifuge ([analytical ultracentrifugation detection]([The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2012 - NobelPrize.org](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2012/summary/)) is a noble prize wining technology). A homogeneous solvent can be used to perform differential centrifugation while density-gradient centrifugation solvent can be prepared with surcose, glycerol or $C_sCl$. 

Differential centrifugation requires to centrifugate multiple times in different rpm. By the way, the commonly used molecular weight indicater $S$ is defined by the **sedimentation coefficient**
$$
s=\frac{v}{ω^2r}
$$
where v is the sedimentation rate of a molecule. This actually comes from [**Stoke's Law**](https://www.britannica.com/science/Stokess-law)
$$
v = \frac{r^2(ρ_p-ρ_m)}{η}g
$$

Centrifugation tubes need to be labeled properly and balanced. When the temperature is low, remember to wipe out the water outside the tube incase it freezes.

## Chromatography

The whole protein purification procedure can be divided into three steps: 

1. capture 
2. intermediate purification 
3. polishing

Chromatography plays an important role in this. Some commonly-used chromatography methods are listed below. Remember that a important parameter in chromatography is **distribution coefficient**

$$
K_{d}=\frac{V_s}{V_f}
$$

### Ion-exchange chromatography

Rememer that in cation ion exchange, proteins with negative charge will flow through.  Here we will take ion-exchange as  an example to show common steps in chromatography. The buffer, elution method and regeneration method may vary a little bit in different chromatography ways.

1. equilibration: the column is stored in 20% alcohol (a possible reason is that such organic solution won't have interactions with the column). Before use, it needs to be equilibrated with buffer so that the alcohol won't mix into the sample, leading to denature. We use tris-HCl as a buffer to provide proper pH for the protein, so we wash the whole water way with tris-HCl.
2. sample loading: when the alcohol is completely eliminated, we can start to load the sample. Be cautious not to let any air to into the column.
3. some protein will not stay on the column, instead, they will flow through the column and be detected by UV. With the flow through peek, we can tell that the protein have fully loaded to the column and we can start elution.
4. elution: let the ion concentration gradually go from low to high, and collet the eluted protein. 
5. regeneration: Use high concentration buffer at last to make sure that all the proteins are eluted. The column should be washed and regenerated as recommended. (see [Column Regeneration Suggestions - DAISOGEL USA](https://www.daisogelusa.com/technical-notes/column-regeneration-suggestions/)) Then load the column with 20% alcohol.



### Gel Filtration(GF)

Gel filtration separates proteins based on their molecular weight. Some important constants of the column in gel filtration includes:

1. $V_0$, the volume outside the pore. 
2. $V_i$, the volume inside the pore. 
3. $V_t=V_0+V_i$, $V_t$ is the total column volume. 

$V_t$ is often given on the tag of the column, and $V_0$ can be measured through a large molecular (because large molecular doesn't enter the bead, so the elution volume of it is approximately $V_0$). 

Given the elution volume $V_e$ of a certain protein, we can calculate its **distribution coefficient**
$$
K_{av}=\frac{V_e-V_0}{V_t-V_0}
$$
$K_{av}$ has an approximately linear relevance with $logM_r$. For a small protein, it will stay longer in the probe, its $K_{av}$ will be larger. We can tell that $V_e$ also have a linear relevance with $K_{av}$.

GF is relatively easy to conduct and suitable for various separation situations (after all, there are no two same leaves in the world.) Most of the sample can be recover.  On the other hand, it is quite time-consuming and its sample volume is quite limited. It is usually performed late in the hole separation procedure.

### Affinity Chromatography

Here we take GST affinity chromatography as an example. GST binds with GST-transferase. and it is natural that we uses GST to wash the unbond protein. For his tag the Ni collmn used is usually magnificent beads. Affinity chromatography is usually performed in early stage of purification of recombinant protein because the recombinant protein is expressed with label. 

## Spectroscopic Analysis

Spectroscopic analysis  uses X-ray, Ultraviolet, visible or infrared light. For example, OD260/OD280 is used to evaluate whether a DNA sample is pure enough. The following things mainly focus on the measurement of concentration.

Recall some basic formulas like  
$$
λ=\frac{c}{v}, E=hv
$$
Absorbance is usually written as A or OD(optical density), there is the formula  
$$
A=-lg(\frac{I}{I_0})
$$
$I$ stands for the intensity of incident light and $I_0$ stands for the  intensity of  transmitted light.  

According to the **Beer-Lambert Law**, the concentration of a solution (c) is  and absorption (A) have  
$$
A=εcd
$$
$ε$ is a constant called **molar absorption coefficient** and $d$ is the thickness of the liquid. We can tell that a constant like $ε$ can easily be calculated through standard sample.

This can also be used to evaluated the affinity of enzymes.

## Electrophoresis

different kinds of electrophoresis is suitable for 

## Immunochemical techniques

### Western blot

We look at an example here.

We have protein X and protein Y, with molecular weight already known, and we want to know weather they interact with each other. So we designed such an experiment.  
proteinA: GST-mCherry-X  
proteinB: His-Y-EGFP  
proteinC: GST-mCherry 

GST and His are used to purify these protein since they are expressed in bacteria. EGFP and mCherry have color (makes me think of the lyric "all I can see is black and white.") so we can see them.

Now we have the proteins, if the proteins interacts with each other, we need to give them a chance to interact.  So the pull-down method is used here. IP, Co-IP and pull down seems alike, the reasons they have different names are listed below  

IP(Immunoprecipitation): it looks quite like a chromatography, the fixed phase is changed into beads  which makes the protein precipitate.   

Co-IP: the protein precipitated is a pair of proteins that interacts with each other.   

pull-down: pull-down is IP without I, it doesn't rely on antigen-antibody binding.

TBST: TBS(Tris-HCl) + tween-20: 吐温是一种非离子型表面活性剂,可以洗掉一些非特异性结合的蛋白和抗体,降低背景。

 
